.\" iftoprsall(1) — comprehensive all-in-one man page for iftoprs
.\" Modeled after zshall(1): every man page in one document.
.\" Render with:  man -l man/man1/iftoprsall.1
.\" Install:      cp man/man1/iftoprsall.1 /usr/local/share/man/man1/
.TH IFTOPRSALL 1 "May 2026" "iftoprs 2.22.7" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
iftoprsall \- the iftoprs comprehensive reference (invocation, capture,
display, every keybinding, themes, BPF filters, process attribution,
JSON streaming)
.SH OVERVIEW
This is the all-in-one
.B iftoprs
manual, modeled on
.BR zshall (1).
It concatenates the major sections of the iftoprs reference into a
single page so you can grep with `/`:
.RS 2
.PP
.B 1.  INVOCATION
.RB "\(em " "privileges, interface selection, default behavior"
.br
.B 2.  CAPTURE OPTIONS
.RB "\(em " "interface, BPF filter, network filter, promiscuous"
.br
.B 3.  DISPLAY OPTIONS
.RB "\(em " "DNS, port names, bars, bytes, ports, processes"
.br
.B 4.  OUTPUT MODE
.RB "\(em " "NDJSON streaming"
.br
.B 5.  SYSTEM OPTIONS
.RB "\(em " "interface listing, theme preview, completions"
.br
.B 6.  FLOW VIEW
.RB "\(em " "columns, sparklines, sliding-window averages"
.br
.B 7.  PROCESSES VIEW
.RB "\(em " "Tab toggle, drill-down, aggregation"
.br
.B 8.  KEYBINDINGS
.RB "\(em " "every key in every mode"
.br
.B 9.  MOUSE SUPPORT
.RB "\(em " "clicks, hovers, tooltips, scroll"
.br
.B 10. THEMES
.RB "\(em " "31 cyberpunk palettes, chooser, --list-colors"
.br
.B 11. ARCHITECTURE
.RB "\(em " "tokio capture thread, mpsc, auto-restart, lsof attribution"
.br
.B 12. ENVIRONMENT
.br
.B 13. FILES
.br
.B 14. EXIT STATUS
.br
.B 15. EXAMPLES
.RE
.PP
For a shorter quick-reference page see
.BR iftoprs (1).
.SH NAME
iftoprs \- real-time bandwidth monitor with terminal UI, BPF filters,
process attribution, JSON streaming, 31 cyberpunk themes (Rust iftop
clone)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iftoprs
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B iftoprs
is a real-time bandwidth monitor for the terminal.  It captures packets
on a network interface via
.BR libpcap ,
groups them into bidirectional flows
.RI ( "source \(<-> destination, protocol" ),
and renders a
.B ratatui
TUI with per-flow TX / RX sparklines, sliding-window averages, and
cyberpunk color themes.
.PP
.B Highlights:
.IP \[bu] 2
Per-flow bandwidth tracking with sliding-window averages
.RB ( "2 s / 10 s / 40 s" )
plus cumulative totals and peak counters.
.IP \[bu] 2
Async capture via
.B tokio
+ mpsc channels.  Auto-restart on transient errors with exponential
backoff.
.IP \[bu] 2
Protocol detection
.RB ( "TCP / UDP / ICMP / Other" )
+ async cached DNS reverse resolution + port-to-service mapping.
.IP \[bu] 2
Process attribution: flow-to-PID-and-command via
.BR lsof (8)
polling under
.BR "Arc<Mutex<>>" .
.IP \[bu] 2
Per-process aggregated bandwidth view
.RB ( "Tab" )
with drill-down by
.BR Enter .
.IP \[bu] 2
Rich contextual tooltips: right-click for flow detail (TX/RX, process,
sparkline); hover header bar for 1 s auto-tooltip.
.IP \[bu] 2
31 cyberpunk color themes; live theme chooser
.RB ( c ).
.IP \[bu] 2
NDJSON streaming
.RB ( "\-\-json" )
to stdout for pipeline consumption.
.PP
Capture requires raw-socket privileges \(em normally
.B sudo
or
.B CAP_NET_RAW
on Linux.
.SH "1.  INVOCATION"
With no
.B \-i
flag, the first up interface is auto-selected.  Use
.B \-l
to list interfaces:
.RS
.nf
iftoprs \-l
.fi
.RE
.PP
TUI mode is the default.  Use
.B \-\-json
for headless streaming.
.SH "2.  CAPTURE OPTIONS"
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-interface " " \fINAME\fR
Network interface to monitor (e.g.
.BR en0 ,
.BR eth0 ,
.BR wlan0 ).
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-filter " " \fIEXPR\fR
BPF filter expression.  Same syntax as
.BR tcpdump (1)
\(em
.BR "\"tcp port 80\"" ,
.BR "\"host 1.2.3.4 and port 443\"" ,
.BR "\"udp and not port 53\"" ,
etc.
.TP
.BR \-F ", " \-\-net-filter " " \fICIDR\fR
IPv4 network filter.  Accepts CIDR notation
.RB ( "10.0.0.0/8" ,
.BR "192.168.1.0/24" ).
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-promiscuous
Enable promiscuous mode (accept frames not addressed to local MAC).
Usually requires explicit interface support.
.SH "3.  DISPLAY OPTIONS"
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-no-dns
Disable DNS hostname resolution.  Faster, no resolver hangs.
.TP
.BR \-N ", " \-\-no-port-names
Disable port-to-service name resolution.
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-no-bars
Disable bar graph display \(em show numeric rates only.
.TP
.BR \-B ", " \-\-bytes
Display bandwidth in bytes (default is bits).
.TP
.BR \-P ", " \-\-hide-ports
Hide port numbers next to host names.
.TP
.BR \-Z ", " \-\-no-processes
Hide the process column.  Process column is shown by default.
.SH "4.  OUTPUT MODE"
.TP
.B \-\-json
Stream NDJSON to stdout.  One JSON document per refresh tick.  Suppresses
the TUI.  Pipe to
.BR jq (1)
for analysis:
.RS
.nf
sudo iftoprs \-\-json | jq '.flows | length'
.fi
.RE
.SH "5.  SYSTEM OPTIONS"
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list-interfaces
List available capture interfaces and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-list-colors
Preview all 31 color themes with palette swatches and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-completions \fISHELL\fR
Generate shell completions to stdout.  Supported shells:
.BR zsh ,
.BR bash ,
.BR fish ,
.BR elvish ,
.BR powershell .
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help and exit.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display version information and exit.
.SH "6.  FLOW VIEW"
Each row is a bidirectional flow.  Columns:
.PP
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Column|.B Meaning
Source|local endpoint (host:port)
Destination|remote endpoint (host:port)
Protocol|TCP / UDP / ICMP / Other
TX (2s/10s/40s)|transmit averages over sliding windows
RX (2s/10s/40s)|receive averages over sliding windows
Total|cumulative bytes since flow start
Peak|highest 2 s rate observed
Process|owning PID + command name (via lsof)
Sparkline|recent rate trend
.TE
.PP
Sliding-window averages use circular buffers; bar graphs use a
.B log10
scale spanning
.B "10 b/s \(-> 1 Gb/s"
so small flows remain visible alongside high-throughput ones.
.SH "7.  PROCESSES VIEW"
.B Tab
toggles between
.B Flows
and
.B Processes
view.  In Processes view, flows are aggregated by owning PID:
.PP
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Column|.B Meaning
PID|process ID
Command|command name
Total flows|number of active flows
Aggregated TX / RX|sum across all flows
Sparkline|aggregated rate trend
.TE
.PP
.B Enter
on a process row drills down: returns to the Flows view filtered to
that process's flows only.
.B Esc
clears the process filter.
.SH "8.  KEYBINDINGS"
.SS Display mods
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Key|.B Action
Tab|Switch view (Flows / Processes)
n|Toggle DNS resolution
N|Toggle service name resolution
t|Cycle line display (two-line / one-line / sent / recv)
p|Toggle port display
Z|Toggle process display
b|Cycle bar style (gradient / solid / thin / ascii)
B|Toggle bytes/bits
T|Toggle hover tooltips (right-click still works)
U|Toggle cumulative totals
P|Pause / resume display (shows overlay)
x|Toggle border chrome
g|Toggle column header
f|Cycle refresh rate (1 s / 2 s / 5 s / 10 s)
.TE
.SS Sort
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Key|.B Action
1|Sort by 2 s average
2|Sort by 10 s average
3|Sort by 40 s average
<|Sort by source name
>|Sort by destination name
o|Freeze current sort order
r|Reverse sort order
.TE
.SS Navigation
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Key|.B Action
j / Down|Select next flow
k / Up|Select previous flow
Ctrl+D|Half-page down
Ctrl+U|Half-page up
G / End|Jump to last
Home|Jump to first
Esc|Deselect / clear process filter / close overlay
Enter|Drill into selected process (Processes tab)
.TE
.SS Filter
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Key|.B Action
/|Enter filter mode
0|Clear filter
Enter|Confirm filter
Esc|Cancel filter
.TE
.SS Themes
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Key|.B Action
c|Open theme chooser
j / k|Navigate themes
Enter|Select theme
Esc|Cancel
.TE
.SS Interface
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Key|.B Action
i|Open interface chooser (also cycles in popup)
j / k|Navigate interfaces
Enter|Select interface (saved to config, restart to apply)
Esc|Cancel
.TE
.SS Actions
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Key|.B Action
y|Copy selected flow to clipboard
F|Pin / unpin selected flow
e|Export flows to \fI~/.iftoprs.export.txt\fR
.TE
.SS General
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Key|.B Action
h / ?|Toggle help HUD
q|Disconnect (saves prefs)
Ctrl+C|Force disconnect
.TE
.SH "9.  MOUSE SUPPORT"
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Input|.B Action
Left click|Select flow row
Right click (flow)|TX/RX tooltip with bandwidth, process, sparkline
Right click (header)|Instant segment tooltip (persistent until dismissed)
Middle click|Pin / unpin flow
Mouse move|Dismiss flow tooltip
Scroll up / down|Navigate flows (cycle themes in chooser)
Hover header|Segment tooltip after 1 s delay (auto-hides after 3 s)
.TE
.SH "10. THEMES"
31 cyberpunk color themes ship in
.BR iftoprs .
Use
.B \-\-list-colors
to preview every theme with swatches, or open the live chooser with
.B c
inside the TUI.  Theme selection persists across sessions in
.IR ~/.iftoprs.conf .
.PP
Bar styles
.RB ( "gradient / solid / thin / ascii" )
are independent of the theme palette and cycle with
.BR b .
.SH "11. ARCHITECTURE"
.B Capture pipeline:
.RS 2
.nf
libpcap \(-> tokio task \(-> mpsc::Sender \(-> render loop \(-> ratatui
.fi
.RE
.PP
.B Components:
.IP \[bu] 2
.B ratatui
+
.B crossterm
for the TUI framework.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B pcap
crate (libpcap bindings) for packet capture.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B tokio
for the async capture task and DNS resolver.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B mpsc
channel decouples capture from render; render loop drains at refresh
rate.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B Auto-restart:
transient capture errors trigger exponential-backoff restart so a
flapping interface doesn't kill the session.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B Process attribution:
.BR lsof (8)
poll under
.B "Arc<Mutex<>>"
maps each socket to PID and command.  Stale entries are evicted on
poll.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B Sliding-window averages
use circular buffers per flow; the
.B log10
bar scale (
.B "10 b/s \(-> 1 Gb/s"
) keeps small flows visible alongside saturating ones.
.SH "12. ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
.B HOME
Used to locate
.B ~/.iftoprs.conf
and
.BR ~/.iftoprs.export.txt .
.TP
.B TERM
Used to detect terminal capability.  Setting to
.B dumb
disables the TUI.
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
When set, color is suppressed even on a TTY.
.SH "13. FILES"
.TP
.I ~/.iftoprs.conf
TOML preferences file: last-used theme, interface, bar style, sort
order, refresh rate, display toggles.
.TP
.I ~/.iftoprs.export.txt
Flow export target for the
.B e
key.  Appended on each export.
.TP
.I /usr/local/share/man/man1/iftoprs.1
Short reference man page.
.TP
.I /usr/local/share/man/man1/iftoprsall.1
This man page.
.SH "14. EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Successful completion.
.TP
.B 1
Capture error, missing interface, invalid filter expression, or
permission denied.
.SH "15. EXAMPLES"
.PP
Monitor en0:
.RS
.nf
sudo iftoprs \-i en0
.fi
.RE
.PP
Filter HTTPS traffic only:
.RS
.nf
sudo iftoprs \-f "tcp port 443"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Private-network filter, bytes instead of bits:
.RS
.nf
sudo iftoprs \-F 10.0.0.0/8 \-B
.fi
.RE
.PP
Raw IPs, no bars, minimal display:
.RS
.nf
sudo iftoprs \-n \-N \-b
.fi
.RE
.PP
Hide processes:
.RS
.nf
sudo iftoprs \-Z
.fi
.RE
.PP
Promiscuous mode:
.RS
.nf
sudo iftoprs \-p
.fi
.RE
.PP
Pin a flow and copy its endpoint:
.RS
.nf
# in TUI:
F                # pin selected flow
y                # copy to clipboard
.fi
.RE
.PP
NDJSON stream:
.RS
.nf
sudo iftoprs \-\-json
.fi
.RE
.PP
NDJSON piped to
.BR jq (1):
.RS
.nf
sudo iftoprs \-\-json | jq '.flows[0]'
.fi
.RE
.PP
List interfaces:
.RS
.nf
iftoprs \-l
.fi
.RE
.PP
Preview all themes:
.RS
.nf
iftoprs \-\-list-colors
.fi
.RE
.PP
Generate shell completions:
.RS
.nf
iftoprs \-\-completions zsh > /usr/local/share/zsh/site-functions/_iftoprs
iftoprs \-\-completions bash > /etc/bash_completion.d/iftoprs
iftoprs \-\-completions fish > ~/.config/fish/completions/iftoprs.fish
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run alongside a packet trace, capturing the same filter:
.RS
.nf
sudo tcpdump \-i en0 \-w /tmp/trace.pcap "tcp port 443" &
sudo iftoprs \-i en0 \-f "tcp port 443"
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iftoprs (1),
.BR iftop (8),
.BR tcpdump (1),
.BR pcap (3),
.BR lsof (8),
.BR lsofrsall (1),
.BR strykeall (1),
.BR zshrsall (1)
.SH AUTHORS
.B Jacob Menke
.RI < https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies >
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at
.UR https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies/iftoprs/issues
.UE .
