.\" iftoprs(1) — man page for the iftoprs binary
.\" Render with:  man -l man/man1/iftoprs.1
.\" Install:      cp man/man1/iftoprs.1 /usr/local/share/man/man1/
.TH IFTOPRS 1 "May 2026" "iftoprs 2.22.8" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
iftoprs \- real-time bandwidth monitor with terminal UI (Rust iftop
clone, 31 themes, process attribution)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iftoprs
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B iftoprs
is a real-time bandwidth monitor for the terminal.  It captures packets
on a network interface via
.BR libpcap ,
groups them into bidirectional flows
.RI ( "source \(<-> destination, protocol" ),
and renders a
.BR ratatui
TUI with per-flow TX / RX sparklines, sliding-window averages (2 s /
10 s / 40 s), cumulative + peak counters, and 31 cyberpunk color themes.
.PP
Process attribution maps each socket back to its owning PID and command
via
.BR lsof (8).
A Tab key toggles between
.B Flows
view and
.B Processes
view (per-process aggregated bandwidth).  Enter on a process drills
down to that process's flows only.
.PP
Capture runs in a tokio thread sending packets over an
.B mpsc
channel; transient capture errors trigger automatic exponential-backoff
restart.  When
.B \-\-json
is given,
.B iftoprs
streams NDJSON to stdout with no TUI.
.PP
.B iftoprs
requires raw-socket capture privileges \(em normally
.BR sudo
or
.B CAP_NET_RAW
on Linux.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Capture
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-interface " " \fINAME\fR
Network interface to monitor.  When omitted, the first up interface is
chosen.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-filter " " \fIEXPR\fR
BPF filter expression (e.g.
.BR "\"tcp port 80\"" ).
.TP
.BR \-F ", " \-\-net-filter " " \fICIDR\fR
IPv4 network filter (e.g.
.BR "10.0.0.0/8" ).
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-promiscuous
Enable promiscuous mode.
.SS Display
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-no-dns
Disable DNS hostname resolution.
.TP
.BR \-N ", " \-\-no-port-names
Disable port-to-service name resolution.
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-no-bars
Disable bar graph display.
.TP
.BR \-B ", " \-\-bytes
Display bandwidth in bytes (default is bits).
.TP
.BR \-P ", " \-\-hide-ports
Hide port numbers next to host names.
.TP
.BR \-Z ", " \-\-no-processes
Hide the process column (shown by default).
.SS Output
.TP
.B \-\-json
Stream NDJSON to stdout.  Suppresses the TUI.
.SS System
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list-interfaces
List available interfaces and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-list-colors
Preview all 31 color themes with swatches and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-completions \fISHELL\fR
Generate shell completions
.RB ( zsh ,
.BR bash ,
.BR fish ,
.BR elvish ,
.BR powershell )
to stdout.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help and exit.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display version information and exit.
.SH KEYBINDINGS
A subset of the most common keys.  See
.BR iftoprsall (1)
for the complete matrix.
.TP
.B Tab
Switch view (Flows / Processes).
.TP
.B j / k / Up / Down
Navigate flows.
.TP
.B 1 / 2 / 3
Sort by 2 s / 10 s / 40 s average.
.TP
.B /
Filter mode.
.B 0
clears the filter.
.TP
.B c
Theme chooser.
.TP
.B i
Interface chooser.
.TP
.B P
Pause / resume.
.TP
.B y
Copy selected flow to clipboard.
.TP
.B F
Pin / unpin selected flow.
.TP
.B h / ?
Toggle help HUD.
.TP
.B q
Quit (saves preferences).
.SH EXAMPLES
Monitor a specific interface:
.RS
.nf
sudo iftoprs \-i en0
.fi
.RE
.PP
Filter HTTPS traffic only:
.RS
.nf
sudo iftoprs \-f "tcp port 443"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Private-network filter, bytes instead of bits:
.RS
.nf
sudo iftoprs \-F 10.0.0.0/8 \-B
.fi
.RE
.PP
Raw IPs, no bars, minimal display:
.RS
.nf
sudo iftoprs \-n \-N \-b
.fi
.RE
.PP
NDJSON stream piped to
.BR jq (1):
.RS
.nf
sudo iftoprs \-\-json | jq '.flows[0]'
.fi
.RE
.PP
Generate zsh completions:
.RS
.nf
iftoprs \-\-completions zsh > ~/.zsh/_iftoprs
.fi
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B HOME
Used to locate
.B ~/.iftoprs.conf
(theme, last interface, display preferences) and
.B ~/.iftoprs.export.txt
(flow export via the
.B e
key).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.iftoprs.conf
TOML preferences file: last-used theme, interface, bar style, sort
order, refresh rate.
.TP
.I ~/.iftoprs.export.txt
Flow export target for the
.B e
key.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful completion.
.TP
.B 1
Capture error, missing interface, invalid filter expression, or
permission denied.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iftoprsall (1),
.BR iftop (8),
.BR tcpdump (1),
.BR pcap (3),
.BR lsof (8)
.SH AUTHORS
.B Jacob Menke
.RI < https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies >
